Notes for users migrating from the VDS to Pegasus
------------------------------------------------------------- 

1) Environment Variables
   - The VDS_HOME environment variable has been replaced by
   PEGASUS_HOME.

   - The environment variables to set the JAVA heap parameters are 
	 JAVA_HEAPMAX : sets the maximum heap for java to use
	 JAVA_HEAPMIN : sets the minimum heap for java to use

   - Please make sure that your environment does not have VDS_HOME
     set. Additionally, make sure that gvds.jar is not in your
     CLASSPATH. 

     One recommended way is to unset your CLASSPATH before sourcing
     the file $PEGASUS_HOME/setup.sh|csh

   

2) Properties

   - $HOME/.vdsrc is now $HOME/.pegasusrc

   - To specify an overriding properties file at run time, specify the
     property the following property at command line using the -D
     option for the java tools.
	    pegasus.user.properties

   - All properties now have a pegasus prefix instead of the vds
     prefix. However, a simple change of prefix will not work as the
     names of the properties also have been changed. We have
     provided a property conversion tool for you.

     To change your properties file, use
     $PEGASUS_HOME/bin/properties-converter 

   - The properties documentation is updated and available at
     $PEGASUS_HOME/doc/properties.pdf 

3) Site Catalog
   - The site catalog format has changed. Instead of the pool
     elements that described a site, we now have a site element.

   - There is a tool that will convert your existing site catalog
     into the new format

     $PEGASUS_HOME/bin/sitecatalog-converter vds.sites.xml


4) Profiles
   The VDS profile namespace has been replaced by the
   pegasus namespace. The user will have to manually change any VDS
   profiles that they have in their transformation catalog.

  
   
5) Entries for worker package executables in the Transformation Catalog 

   In case of VDS, the entries for the worker package executables
   ( dirmanager,transfer, rc-client ) needed to be specified in the
   transformation catalog for various sites. That is no longer
   necessary. The entries are automatically constructed if
   PEGASUS_HOME or VDS_HOME is set in the site catalog for the sites.

   If you want to override the default entries for some reason
   you can do so by specifying your own entry in the
   transformation. However, you need to associate the pegasus
   namespace with the executables.

   For e.g. if you want to specify a dirmanager location in the
   transformation catalog (file based) for site isi, you will insert
   the entry as follows

   isi pegasus::dirmanager   /install/pegasus/bin/dirmanager INSTALLED   INTEL32::LINUX NULL


5) Registering data products in replica catalog
   In VDS a user could only register data products in the
   RLS.

   This is no longer the case. Pegasus uses a new tool rc-client
   (replacing rls-client) to register data products in the Replica
   Catalog.  The Replica Catalog can be  any of :
	    - RLS    ( Replica Location Service )
	    - LRC    ( Local Replica Catalog - part of RLS)
            - JDBCRC ( Database based Replica Catalog)


   To override the default path constructed for rc-client by Pegasus,
   in the transformation catalog specify entry for pegasus::rc-client
   for site local.
  
 
6) Planning a workflow
   To plan a workflow, you know need to run pegasus-plan. In VDS, you
   could either use vds-plan or gencdag to create the executable
   workflow.

   The semantics of pegasus-plan are largely similar as vds-plan in
   terms of how the submit directories are organized.

7) Submitting/Running a workflow
   To submit a workflow you can either use 
   1) pegasus-run
     Copy paste the pegasus-run invocation that appears  in the log
     when you run pegasus-plan. 

   2) condor_submit_dag
      You can choose to submit the workflow yourself using
      condor_submit_dag on the dag file created during the planning
      process. However, this is not recommended, as certain monitoring
      daemons like tailstatd are not invoked in this case.  