WCSTools Program Files

addpix.c
  Add a constant value(s) to specified pixel(s)
bincat.c
  Create a FITS image containing catalogued objects
char2sp.c:
  Replaces a specified character in a string with spaces (default is _)
conpix.c
  Operate on all of the pixels of an image
cphead.c
  Copy keyword values between FITS or IRAF images
crlf.c
  Change carriage returns in text stream to line feeds to make imwcs logs readable
delhead.c
  Delete specified keywords from FITS or IRAF image file headers
delwcs.c
  Delete the WCS keywords from an image. If both EPOCH and EQUINOX are
  present, EQUINOX is also deleted. 
edhead.c
  Edit the header of a FITS file or the user parameters of an IRAF image file
  using a the text editor specified by the EDITOR environment variable.
filename.c
  Remove file directory path from complete file pathname leaving file name
fileroot.c
  Remove file extension and return the root, including character replacement
filext.c
  Return the file extension, if there is one.  Brackets and commas count.
getcol.c
  Extract specified fields from an space-separated ASCII table file
getdate.c
  Convert dates and times between various formats.
getfits.c
  Extract portion of a FITS file into a new FITS file, preserving WCS
gethead.c
  Return values for keyword(s) specified after filename.
getpix.c
  Return value(s) of specified pixel(s)
gettab.c
  Extract values from Starbase tab table data base files
httpget.c
  Return Web URL to command line
i2f.c
  Read two-dimensional IRAF image file and write FITS image file
imcat.c
  List catalog sources which should be found in the area of the sky
  covered by a specific image.  Specific catalogs supported include
  the GSC II, the USNO-B1.0 Catalog, the 2MASS Point Source Catalog,
  the HST Guide Star Catalog, the USNO-A2.0 Catalog, the USNO UCAC2
  Catalog, the Tycho-2 Catalog, the PPM Catalog, the IRAS Point Source
  Catalog, and the SAO Catalog.
imextract.c
  Extract 1- or 2-dimensional images from 2- or 3-dimensional images
imfill.c
  Replace bad pixels using a box median, mean, or Gaussian filter
imhead.c
  Print FITS or IRAF header
immatch.c
  Match catalog and image stars using the WCS in the image file.
imresize.c
  Shrink an image by an integral factor keeping WCS intact
imrot.c
  Rotate and/or reflect FITS or IRAF image files
imsize.c
  Print center and size of image using WCS keywords in header
imsmooth.c
  Run a box median, mean, or Gaussian filter over an image
imstack.c
  Stack 1-dimensional images into a 2-dimensional image
imstar.c
  Find and list the n brightest stars in an IRAF or FITS image, with their
  sky coordinates if there is WCS information in the image header. 
imwcs.c
  Automaticaly find stars in a FITS or IRAF image, match them to catalog
  stars, compute the relation between sky coordinates and image
  coordinates, and write in in the image header. [after U of Iowa SETWCS]
  Specific catalogs supported include the GSC II, the USNO-B1.0 Catalog,
  the 2MASS Point Source Catalog, the HST Guide Star Catalog, the
  USNO-A2.0 Catalog, the USNO UCAC2 Catalog, the Tycho-2 Catalog,
  the PPM Catalog, the IRAS Point Source Catalog, and the SAO Catalog.
isnum.c
  Return 1 if argument is an integer, 2 if it is floating point, else 0
isrange.c
  Return 1 if argument is a range of the format n[-n[xn]],n[-n]xn]],...
keyhead.c
  Change keyword names in headers of FITS or IRAF images.
nedpos.c
  Get the position of a named object from NED at IPAC
newfits.c
  Create dataless FITS image header files with BITPIX=0 or blank FITS
  image file if BITPIX is set to any legal value.
remap.c
  Rebin an image from its current WCS to one specified on the command line
scat.c
  Search a source catalog given a region on the sky.
  Specific catalogs supported include the GSC II, the USNO-B1.0 Catalog,
  the 2MASS Point and Extended Source Catalogs, the HST Guide Star Catalog,
  the USNO-A2.0 Catalog, the USNO UCAC2 Catalog, the Tycho-2 Catalog,
  the PPM Catalog, the IRAS Point Source Catalog, and the SAO Catalog.
sethead.c
  Set header keyword values in FITS or IRAF images.
setpix.c
  Set specified pixel(s) to specified value(s)
simpos.c
  Get the position of a named object from SIMBAD at CDS
sky2xy.c
  Print image pixel coordinates for given sky coordinates on the command line
  or in a list file. 
skycoor.c
  Convert between J2000, B1950, and Galactic coordinates from the command
  line or a file.
sp2char.c
  Replaces spaces in string with specified character (default is _)
sumpix.c
  Total pixel values in row, column, or specified area
tmcat.c
  Reformat 2MASS Point Source Catalog for reading by WCSTools
tmcate.c
  Reformat 2MASS Point Source Catalog with magnitude errors for reading by WCSTools
tmxcat.c
  Reformat 2MASS Extended Source Catalog for reading by WCSTools
wcshead.c
  Print basic world coordinate system information on one line per image
xy2sky.c
  Print sky coordinates for given image pixel coordinates on the command line
  or in a list file.
