WCSTools libwcs Subroutines

actread.c
  Return stars from the USNO ACT Reference Catalog
binread.c
  Return stars from catalog files in the TDC binary catalog format
catread.c
  Return stars from catalog files in the TDC ASCII catalog format
catutil.c
  Subroutines for catalog identification and number range decoding
cel.c
  WCSLIB spherical coordinate transformation drivers
daoread.c
  Read x, y, and magnitude from DAOFIND output file and return x, y, and
  flux for use by IMSTAR or IMWCS.
dateutil.c
  Subroutines for conversions between various date and time formats
distort.c
  Subroutines for conversions between image pixel and focal plane coordinates
dsspos.c
  dsspos() uses the WCS structure to compute sky coordinates given
  image pixel X and Y for images with Digitized Sky Survey plate solutions
  in their headers.  dsspix() uses the WCS structure to compute image
  pixel X and Y given sky coordinates for DSS images.  Algorithms from
  StSCI CASB.
fileutil.c
  Subroutines for finding size and contents of ASCII files
findstar.c
  findStars() gets the location and brightest pixel of stars in the given
  image.  Included are subroutines to find and reject bright pixels and
  compute a star centroid.
fitsfile.c
  FITS header and image reading and writing subroutines, including FITS
  table support.
fitswcs.c
  GetWCSFITS() returns a WCS structure used by wcs.c subroutines from a FITS
  or IRAF .imh image, reading only the header.
  GetFITShead() returns a FITS header from a FITS or IRAF .imh image.
  DelWCS() delete the WCS keywords in a FITS header.
fortcat.c
  Fortran wrapper subroutines for catalog reading subroutines ctgread() and ctgrnum()
fortwcs.c
  Fortran wrapper subroutines for all useful subroutines in wcs.c and wcsinit.c
gscread.c
  Return HST Guide Stars from standard CDROM format FITS table files for
  a given RA, Dec, and magnitude range or list of star numbers.
gsc2read.c
  Return GSC II Stars using an HTTP query over the web for
  a given RA, Dec, and magnitude range or list of star numbers.
hget.c
  Subroutines to extract values from FITS headers by keyword.
  Subroutines for parsing RA and Dec strings are included.
hput.c
  Subroutines to implant values into FITS headers by keyword (and to
  delete headers).
iget.c
  Subroutines to extract values from IRAF multi-keyword header parameters
imhfile.c
  IRAF header and image reading and writing subroutines.  IRAF headers
  are converted to FITS headers for use by other programs and can be
  derived from FITS headers for writing.
imio.c
  Subroutines to get, put, and move pixels of various data types between images
  im memory and a program.
imrotate.c
  RotFITS() rotates an image by 90, 180, or 270 degrees, with an optional
  left-right reflection before the rotation.
imgetwcs.c
  GetWCSFITS() reads world coordinate system header information and returns
  the image center coordinates and size as well as the wcs data structure.
imsetwcs.c
  SetWCSFITS() uses findStars to find the stars in an image, gscread to
  find the Guide Stars in the nominal image region, and findRegisration or
  findCoords to fit plate-tangent WCS to the image.
lin.c
  WCSLIB linear transformation subroutines
matchstar.c
  StarMatch() takes a list of reference star positions and a list
  of object coordinates from an image and finds the image pixels
  which correspond to each of the reference stars.  It then uses these
  matches to get an image center, plate scale, and rotation.  The actual
  fit is based on the amoeba subroutine in Numerical Recipes, and all
  necessary subroutines are included.
platepos.c
  platepos() uses the WCS structure to compute sky coordinates given
  image pixel X and Y for images with polynomial plate solutions
  in their headers.  platepix() uses the WCS structure to compute image
  pixel X and Y given sky coordinates for such images.  Algorithms are based
  on those in dsspos.c, but go straight from pixels to angles without an
  intermediate plate coordinate.
proj.c
  WCSLIB spherical map projection subroutines
sdssread.c
  Return Sloan Digital Sky Survey Photometry Catalog sources using an
  HTTP query over the web for a given RA, Dec, and magnitude range.
sortstars.c
  Subroutines to sort lists of stars by right ascension, magnitude, or flux
sph.c
  WCSLIB spherical coordinate transformation subroutines
tabread.c
  Return stars from a tab table format catalog file for a given RA, Dec,
  and magnitude range or list of star numbers.  Based on John Roll's
  Starbase format.
tmcread.c
  Return 2MASS Point Source Catalog stars from the catalog as ungzipped from
  the DVD into (or linked from) a common root directory for a given RA, Dec,
  and magnitude range or list of star numbers.  Both IDR2 and All-Sky release
  formats are supported.
tnxpos.c
  tnxpos() uses the WCS keywords set up for IRAF's TNX projection to compute
  sky coordinates given image pixel X and Y.  tnxpix() uses the WCS structure
  to compute image pixel X and Y given sky coordinates for such images.  The
  projection is a tangent plane with corrections between the rotation and
  scaling and the actual projection.
uacread.c
  Return USNO A and SA Catalog stars from their standard CDROM format
  files for a given RA, Dec, and magnitude range or list of star numbers.
ubcread.c
  Return USNO B Catalog stars from their standard format files for a
  given RA, Dec, and magnitude range or list of star numbers.
ucacread.c
  Return USNO UCAC1, UCAC2, or UCAC3 Catalog stars from their standard format
  files for a given RA, Dec, and magnitude range or list of star numbers.
ujcread.c
  Return USNO UJ Catalog stars from its standard CDROM format files for
  a given RA, Dec, and magnitude range or list of star numbers.
wcs.c
  Subroutines for using FITS or IRAF header spatial world coordinate
  system information.
wcsinit.c
  Subroutines to initialize WCS structure from a FITS header
wcscon.c
  Subroutines for converting between B1950, J2000, and galactic
  coordinates, mostly based on Starlink SLA_LIB subroutines.
webread.c
  Open Starbase files across the Internet using HTTP queries
worldpos.c
  worldpos() uses the WCS structure to compute sky coordinates given
  image pixel X and Y for images with header information for any of 8
  standard world coordinate systems.  worldpix() uses the WCS structure
  to compute image pixel X and Y given sky coordinates for the same images.
  Mostly from NRAO.

fitshead.h
  Declarations of FITS header access subroutines
fitsfile.h
  Declarations of image access subroutines and FITS table data structure.
imio.h
  Declarations of subroutines to convert binary formats of numbers
lwcs.h
  Constants used by star-finding and WCS-setting subroutines
wcscat.h
  Declarations for star catalog data structures
wcs.h
  Declaration of WCS data structure and useful conversions.
wcslib.h
  Declarations for WCSLIB high level driver subroutines, trig and inverse
  trig functions, spherical map projection subroutines, spherical coordinate
  transformation drivers, and linear transformation subroutines

* Notes:
  slasubs.c contains unmodified subroutines from Pat Wallace's Starlink
            astrometry library and may be omitted if that library is
            being linked.
  WCSLIB subroutines were written by Mark Calabretta of CSIRO and have
         been modified in several ways:
         1) His distributed wcs.h has been changed to wcslib.h, and
         2) wcstrig.c subroutine names have been changed from <function>d()
            to <function>deg() to avoid name conflicts on some operating
            systems.
         3) ifndef's at start of headers files have been named to reflect
            the names of the header files, i.e. wcslib_h_ in wcslib.h.
         4) All header files have been combined into wcslib.h
